Greetings Xcode fans.
So we are here together,
thank you for coming to this presentation
to talk about device management
and app submission with Xcode 4.
I should add Xcode 4.2.
What you will see right now
is done using Xcode 4.2.
Don't try this with 4.1,
you can try it at home.
So, we will go through a few steps.
We want to take you from start to finish.
From I have nothing and
I'm creating a new project,
to I have an old project and
I want to make something out of it.
But ultimately,
I want to go to the store.
So we'll go to templates,
we'll go through project settings,
summary pane, a lot of things.
We'll go through building and running
on the simulator and on the device.
We'll show you how to better
test your application.
And we'll discuss how to do a submission
to the store through an archive.
Then, we would like to take you
through a few tips and tricks
that you might find useful.
So how do we start?
As usual, templates.
We re-sorted,
we rearranged a little bit the templates.
You will find a few difference
compared with the previous version.
We tried to match, sorry,
and you still have the
same format for Mac OS X,
of course,
but we'll stay focused on iOS right now.
So we tried to match the
common classes of application.
Master detail, like message or mail.
Page-based application,
like iBook or Contact.
OpenGL application,
you're all familiar with that.
Tab apps, utilities, stock,
all the things.
And you can, of course,
start with all close to nothing,
a single view application
or an empty application,
when in fact already has a window.
So the first thing you will see
when you create a new project with,
or a new workspace with Xcode
will be the setup of the template.
There are a few things that
you can set from start.
You can pick the product name.
You can pick the company identifier.
Combined,
they will create the bundle identifier.
More on that later.
You can then pick the device
family you will want to target.
All the templates now
are targeting iPhone,
iPod, iPad, and Universal,
which means combination of the two.
You can change that later.
You can then elect to use
the new storyboard feature,
which we highly recommend.
You can use code data.
And we can set up for you
everything for unit testing.
Highly recommended, as you know.
Once you do that,
you end up in the summary pane.
The summary pane is a simplified
version of all your settings.
We did our best to try to put
there 99% of what you will use in
the normal life of your project.
So you see again here the identifier.
This is quite important because this
is the one you will use in iTunes
Connect to identify your application.
So when later you will want
to upload to the store,
you will need to have this matching
something on an iTunes Connect site.
You then define the version number.
Version number, very important.
Same thing,
that's the one you will specify
in the iTunes Connect portal.
Again, the device family,
you can change it from here.
You can reverse a choice you made before.
If you move from iPhone
to iPad or Universal,
we will help you set up a few
things like modifying the zip file
if that's still what you're using,
and create one or two things to
help you create the framework
for a Universal application.
And of course, the usual things like
the deployment target,
very important.
You all know that you have to
use the latest SDK available,
but you might want to elect to
deploy to earlier version of the iOS.
In that case, this is what you will do.
You will pick the deployment target.
Then it will be up to you to be
sure in your source code that
when you use a newer feature,
you really check that it exists
on the device you're running on.
Here you have to specify the
name of the storyboard you
want to be loaded at first,
or the first zip file you want to use.
The orientations that your
application will support.
The icons.
The icons are added by drag and drop.
Don't be afraid to do the wrong thing.
As long as it's a ping
file and the correct size,
we will accept it.
If the size is incorrect, we will reject.
So not too many risks of mistakes here.
For the initial launch images,
we will accept about any size.
But we will display a warning if the size
is not optimal for the device you target.
This is for the iPhone/iPad.
You have the same thing for the
iPad if your app is universal.
In case there is something that's missing
for your needs in the summary pane,
you still have access to the
build settings by config file,
target, config file for the project,
project, and the resolved values
for all your settings.
You can do all these changes here.
You have several ways to customize
the way you want to see your settings.
Simplified, accumulated, enjoy.
Now that you have set up everything
you want to build and run.
To do that, you click on the Run button.
Xcode will build, launch the simulator,
launch your app.
From a template, it will work.
Later, it's up to you.
Once this is done,
I'm sure you will want to
then do the same on a device.
For that,
I will ask Jacob Xiao to come on stage,
the master of the provisioning profile,
the keeper of, well, the keys,
and he will explain to you how to
set up a device to be able to run.
Jacob?
Thanks, Marc.
So I'd like to tell you how
you can set up your device to
run and test your iOS apps.
Now, let's get started.
So here I have a basic
photo album application.
And I'll start by just
running it in the simulator.
The great thing about running
in the simulator is that
there's no setup required.
So here's my app,
and I can flip through photos and also
view those photos' location on a map.
Okay, that works,
but I also have a feature in this app
that's triggered by a pinch gesture.
And it's really better to
test multi-touch kinds of
things on a real device,
because you want to see how the
gesture feels with your fingers.
So how many of you have had problems
in the past with provisioning
profiles and signing certificates
and getting all of that set up?
Yeah, me too.
Well, I have good news for you.
Xcode will now do all of
this setup automatically.
All you have to do is
plug in your device.
And when it appears in
the Xcode organizer,
just click Use for Development.
Then sign in to the provisioning portal.
And since this is my first
time setting things up,
Xcode will even offer to create
a signing identity for me.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
And Xcode is now adding my device
to the portal and creating a
new provisioning profile for me.
This profile will include all
of my team's devices and also
all of our signing identities.
And it will use a wildcard app ID,
which means it can be
used with any application,
regardless of the app's bundle ID.
And you can see here now that
it's downloaded the profile and
even copied it over to my device.
And that's all I have to do.
I'm ready to run.
So I just choose my application,
my device here, and build and run.
And now, my app's running on the device.
It's just starting up here.
And I can flip through my photos
and view the map just the same.
And now I'll try my pinch gesture.
Cool, now I can tweet my photo.
But I'm not sure if the pinch gesture
is really the right gesture here,
so I'm glad that I tested it.
Now, there are some services for iOS that
require an exact bundle identifier
in your provisioning profile.
This includes GameKit,
push notifications, and in-app purchase.
And you have to create a custom
profile to use any of those.
Formally, you'd have to do this on the
provisioning portal site.
But as of Xcode 4.2,
you can now do this in
the organizer as well.
Just click on Provisioning
Profiles and click New here.
You can enter all of the
information that it asks for,
including which of your
app IDs you want to use.
Then, Xcode will communicate with
the portal and create your new
custom provisioning profile.
Another thing that you have to do with
provisioning profiles is renew them
after they've expired in a few months.
And this is also something you can do
right from within the Xcode organizer.
I don't have any expiring profiles here,
but you just click on the
profile and click renew.
So now that you've seen how to run
your application and also how to
manage profiles from within Xcode,
let's talk about unit testing.
When I created this project,
I clicked the Include Unit Tests
checkbox that you just saw.
And that created this unit test target.
Now,
the type of unit tests created by that
checkbox are application unit tests.
And this means that the unit tests
are actually injected into your
application and then run from there.
This can be useful because
you can test the model,
view,
and controller parts of your application,
since you're just running
in the real application.
So in the test that I've set up here,
we're getting the app delegate and
testing some of its properties.
I also have a test that will tell the
app delegate to run an action method.
And then we'll test that the
map view was actually shown.
So application unit tests can be run
both on the device and on the simulator.
So that it's easier for
you to see what's going on,
I'll run on the simulator.
Now to run the test,
just choose Product and Test.
And you'll see that our application is
started up to run the tests and then
terminated as soon as tests are finished.
Great.
Now all of our tests have passed.
The alternative to application
unit tests are logic tests.
And these are actually run
independently of your application
and without a user interface.
This can be useful for testing the model
parts of your code because you'll be
running these tests independently of your
application so there's no interference.
Now to create a logic test,
just go to New Target and
choose Unit Testing Bundle
from the Other category.
Now, I've created these new logic tests.
And first of all,
I'll turn off this automatic
failure because we don't want that.
Then,
I'll drag in some tests that I have
prepared and add them to my logic tests.
So these tests test the photo class,
which is part of my model.
And since logic tests are run
independently of the application,
I'll have to include any classes
that I use in the unit tests.
I can do that for the photo
class in the utilities.
And my unit tests also use Core Location.
So I'll just add the Core Location
framework to my link phase.
Okay, now we're ready to run the tests.
And Xcode has created this separate
scheme that includes just those
logic tests that I just created,
but I'd really like to add them
to my main photo album scheme.
I can edit the scheme to do
that and go to the test section.
Now you can see that my application
unit tests are already here.
I'll add the logic tests.
And now both of these sets of tests
will be run whenever I test this scheme.
This section of the edit scheme
editor is also where you can
turn on and off individual tests.
And here's a quick tip for you.
You can hold the option key
to turn all tests on or off.
Okay,
now let's test all of our combined tests.
Again, the application tests will run.
Let's try with the iPhone simulator.
It's going a little slowly this time.
But while it's going,
I'll tell you about another new
feature in Xcode 4 for unit tests.
You can now run all of your unit
tests right from the debugger,
just like you run your application tests.
And this means you can add breakpoints,
just like you do to your application.
In fact, for unit tests,
you can also add a breakpoint that will
fire whenever your unit tests fail.
To do so,
just click Add Symbolic Breakpoint.
and enter send test case,
fail with exception.
Now this breakpoint will be triggered
whenever one of my unit tests fail.
So let's see if we can
get the simulator up.
This is a beta after all.
And we'll try to test again.
Okay, now our application tests have run,
and our logic tests will run after that.
Now all of our tests have run.
Okay.
Now I'll switch back to slides
and summarize what we just saw.
So, I just showed you how you can set up
your device to run your application,
how you can manage provisioning
profiles right from within Xcode,
including some new features in Xcode 4.2,
and also how you can set up
and debug your unit tests
from Xcode for your iOS apps.
Now, I'd like to turn things
over to my colleague,
Itai Rom.
Good afternoon everybody.
So today I'd like to talk to you
about two new features in Xcode
4.2 that will make it really
easy to test your iOS apps.
The first one of these
is application data.
Until today, testing your apps using real
application data was a tedious endeavor.
You either had to write custom code to
generate data whenever your app ran,
and then of course remember
to disable or remove that code
before you release your app.
Or you could come up with complex schemes
to transfer data into your app sandbox.
But with Xcode 4.2, we'll do all of that
for you automatically,
and it's really easy.
The other major feature
is location simulation.
If you've ever had to cram your
Mac Pro into the backseat of your buddy's
hatchback while he drove you around
town just so you could test your app,
those days are over.
Xcode 4.2 makes it really easy
to test your app in any location
on the planet right from the
comfort of your own office.
So let's take a look at
how these features work.
So here we are in Xcode 4.2
looking at the photo album project
that Jacob just showed you.
Now, first we'll take a look at how we
can test with application data.
If I click on the Organizer button here,
and then on the Applications
tab in the Source List,
you'll see that we now have a new section
in the Organizer that shows you all of
the data inside of your app sandbox.
And in here you can see a couple of the
images that you saw in Jacob's demo,
some other files, some metadata files,
things like that.
So what I'd really like to do is to test
our app using a few additional images,
because two is really not a lot.
And the next step in doing
that is to download this data
onto my Mac so I can edit it.
So I'll click the Download button
and just save this to the
desktop as appdata-sf.
Now when I click save,
Xcode's actually going to
download all of the data out of my
application sandbox onto my desktop,
and it's going to save it
in this new bundle format.
I hide Xcode, and I can edit it just like
I would any other bundle.
I can right click and show
package contents in the finder,
and you'll see when I look inside
that I see all of the same files
I just saw in the organizer.
And I can just drag in
additional data if I want,
or delete things, rename things,
whatever I want to do.
I haven't gotten to the good part yet.
So I happen to have a
few additional images.
I'm just going to drag them right in here
and I'll replace what's already there.
So you can see now we've got
seven images from San Francisco.
Great,
let's go back to Xcode and see how we
can upload this back onto my device.
I can just click the upload
button here in the organizer.
And that's going to upload the data one
time so that every time I launch my app
thereafter it's using the same data set.
If I delete things within
my app or create new things,
Xcode's never going to touch the
data set again until I click upload.
But I'd rather do
something more automatic.
So if I go back,
close the organizer window,
and go back into Xcode.
I'm going to import the app data
bundle I just created into my project.
And I'll do that by right-clicking in the
project navigator and choosing Add Files.
I'll select the bundle I created,
and I don't need to
check any targets here.
This file is not really part of
building my application at all,
so I don't want to add it to any target.
I'll just click Add, and now the data was
imported into my project.
I can click on the Scheme Editor up here,
and Edit Scheme, so that I can now make
Xcode always upload my data
every time my app launches.
When I select the Run Scheme Action,
you'll see a new options
tab in the Scheme Editor.
And this is where you can control the
new testing features in Xcode 4.2.
We'll get back to the
location pop-up in a minute.
Let's take a look at this
application data pop-up.
You'll see it lists all of the
app data bundles in my project,
and I can just choose one.
And now, every time I run this scheme,
Xcode's going to upload my app data to
the device or to the simulator fresh.
So if I modify anything
while I'm testing,
it'll re-upload everything from scratch.
So it's always in a known state.
- Hooray!
Now that's not all you can do.
You could also go to
the test scheme action.
And you might have noticed when
Jacob demoed this earlier that we
have a couple of new columns in here.
You can actually associate app
data with each of your tests.
And you can associate a different
bundle with each test suite so that you
can use different app data for all of
your different tests and actually test
different things really easily that way.
You can do the same thing with locations.
So I'm not going to do that now.
I'm just going to click OK and
keep my fingers crossed because I'm
going to run in the simulator again.
Let's see if this works.
So there's our app.
Now if you recall before,
we only had two photos.
Now we have seven.
So our app data was uploaded correctly.
Now that's wonderful.
The next thing I'd like to test is
another feature of our application.
In addition to showing you a map
showing your current location,
the Photo Album app will also filter
the photos that it displays to just
those that were taken within a certain
distance of the user's current location.
Now, since we're in San Francisco and
all the photos we've been looking
at were from San Francisco,
we haven't really been testing that.
And I'd like to test some other
locations to make sure it works properly.
Let's take a look at how to do that.
The first thing I'll need is an
app data bundle containing some
photos from other locations.
Now, I'll hide Xcode and take
a look here in the finder.
I just so happen to have
one already prepared.
And you'll see that it's
got images from New York,
Paris, Rome, San Francisco, and Sydney.
So we can actually want to make
sure that we can view all these
photos properly in our app.
I'll go back to Xcode and import
that app data into my project.
Okay, so now I've got it in my project.
I need to edit my scheme again
to add it to the run action.
So I'll select my new app data.
Okay, now, how will we actually test
photos taken from New York or
Sydney without going there?
That's always been sort of
problematic until Xcode 4.2.
If I click on this location pop-up,
you'll see that Xcode comes
with a few built-in locations
that you can choose from.
Now, whenever, if I select one of these,
whenever I run my application,
the simulator or the device is
going to think that I'm actually
in London or Moscow or Sydney,
and my application is going to behave
as it would in a different way.
It would for a user who's
actually in that location.
So let's go ahead and choose Sydney.
And we'll click OK and run.
The simulator will launch.
It's going to transfer over our app data.
And you'll see,
as soon as our app's launched,
we're in Sydney,
as you can tell by these photos of
the Opera House in the background.
I can even click over to the map,
and you'll see that the map
shows that we're in Sydney.
So just like that, I was able to test my
app in Australia without
hopping on a 17-hour flight.
So that's really useful.
How can I now test photos from
other locations like New York?
I could quit out of my app,
go back to the scheme editor,
change that location pop-up to New York,
relaunch, verify that it works.
But it would be really nice if I could do
this on the fly while my app is running.
So in Xcode 4.2,
that's also really easy to do.
We've added a new control
here in the debug bar,
which is kind of small
for some of you guys.
But it looks just like the
location services icon from the
status bar in an iOS device.
And when you click on it
while your app's running,
you'll see that it lists all of the same
items that you saw in the scheme editor.
And I can just click on one
of these to be instantly
transported to these locations.
So let's click on New York.
and our map moves over to New York.
I can click done and we've
got photos from New York.
It's that easy.
So hopefully you guys can see how useful
this feature will be for testing all
your location-aware apps in the future.
Now,
the next thing to take a look at is how
you might simulate a custom location.
The earth is a pretty big place,
as I'm sure you're aware,
and pop-up menus tend to be pretty small.
So we think we've selected a pretty good
list of built-in locations in Xcode,
but you might want to
test a different location.
So how could you do that?
Well, in Xcode 4.2,
we support the GPX file format.
And I've got a few GPX files here
that I'll import into my project.
and Shouyu.
So here's one for Paris.
And you can see this is a
really simple file format.
There are a whole bunch of
ways you can generate these on
web-based navigation services.
GPS devices can export them.
GPS tracking apps on iOS can export them.
Or you could just create one
yourself in a text editor.
It's pretty simple.
There are two elements in this file,
an outer GPX element and one waypoint
element containing the latitude and
longitude of the Eiffel Tower in Paris.
This name here is optional.
Here's another one for Rome.
This is the location
of the Roman Colosseum.
So to use these, now that I've imported
them into my project,
all I have to do is build my app again,
run it in the simulator.
This works on the device as well.
We'll default to Sydney,
as you'll recall.
That's the location we
selected in the scheme editor.
But now when I pop open the
location services pop-up,
we've got some additional
GPX files that we can select from.
And I can just click on Paris.
Now we're in Paris.
As you can tell from
these Eiffel Tower photos.
I can click on Rome.
and now we're testing
our application in Rome.
As you can tell from this lovely t-shirt,
which we could never have faked.
So.
It's that simple to test your
app in any location that you
need to test on the planet.
If you get a bug report from
a user who's located somewhere
you'd never want to travel to,
you can easily do it in Xcode now.
Finally, you may also want to test
situations where your user is
changing location over time.
And the GPX format can
handle that as well,
and so can Xcode.
Let's take a look at another
GPX file that I imported.
This one's called train sj-sf.
Now, you'll see this looks very
similar to the other GPX files,
but it contains a few more waypoints.
I actually recorded this on my
iPhone while riding Caltrain up to
San Francisco earlier this week.
So it's really actually pretty easy to
generate these just using your iPhone.
The only difference between a
GPX file that simulates a path and
one that just simulates a single
location is the number of waypoints.
You only need to specify two,
but you can specify more if you want to.
And Xcode will automatically interpolate
all of the locations in between
the waypoints that you specify.
So I could have created this file with
just the location of San Francisco and
a location from San Jose,
and Xcode would automatically
generate a path between the two.
But if I provide additional waypoints,
that gives me finer-grained control
over the path that Xcode simulates.
So let's see how this works.
I'll run my app again.
Let's go to the map view.
Again, we're starting out in Sydney,
but I can.
Pop open the pop-up button
here and choose Train SJ to SF.
And now you'll see we
start out in San Jose,
and our location slowly moves up the
peninsula up towards San Francisco.
So this makes it really--
This makes it really easy to
test applications where you're
relying on the user's position
actually changing over time,
like navigation apps.
Let's go back to the slides, please.
So what did we just see?
We just saw how Xcode
4.2 makes it really,
really simple to test our
applications using real application
data and simulated locations.
These were really difficult
things to do before.
And now it's a breeze to do this right
from the comfort of your own office.
At this point, we've learned how to
create and test our app.
The next step is archiving.
And to show you how to do that,
I'd like to invite my colleague,
Clark Cox, up on stage.
Thanks, Itai.
At some point,
you're going to want to get your
app into someone else's hands,
whether that's an external tester,
a tester internal to your company,
or even Apple's App Store reviewers.
To Xcode, it's all the same.
It starts with archiving.
So I'd like to switch
to the demo machine.
Okay, first I need to make sure that
I'm building for the device.
Okay, I'm going to create an
archive by going to Product,
and Archive.
Xcode builds a copy of my application
and packages it up with debugging
information into an XC archive bundle,
which you can see represented
here in the organizer.
Now let's say you're distributing
this to a beta tester.
Well, all you need to do is select
the archive and click Share.
Now I'm presented with
a couple of options.
I can either share a single IPA file,
or I can share the entire archive.
I'll get back to this option later.
For now,
I just want to share an IPA file.
So I choose that option.
Now I need to make sure that
I'm signing with the correct
profile and signing identity.
As it stands now,
it happens that I'm signing with the
correct profile and signing identity.
Now I need to make sure that Xcode has
chosen the correct one automatically.
I want to sign with my
distribution certificate and
my ad hoc distribution profile.
If it weren't selected automatically,
I could always choose it manually.
So when I hit Next,
Xcode generates the IPA.
I can save it there on my desktop.
Now I can email this
file to my beta testers.
They can drag it into iTunes
for syncing with their device.
Now, say for instance,
I'm satisfied with the
state of my application.
I've reacted to any
feedback from testers,
I've fixed any issues found,
and I'm ready to submit it to
Apple for inclusion in the app store.
Again, the process is very similar.
I select the archive.
This time I click Submit.
I log in with my iTunes
Connect credentials.
And then I'm asked to choose the
application record on iTunes Connect that
corresponds to my application.
In this case, I just have the one.
Again, I need to make sure that I'm
signing it with the correct
provisioning profile and identity.
This time I want to use my app
store provisioning profile,
so I'll select that there.
When I click next,
Xcode uploads the app to Apple and a
series of tests are performed on it.
In this case,
all tests have passed and now my
app is forwarded on to a human for
review for inclusion in the app store.
Now what happens if, for instance,
I'm not the team agent,
and therefore I don't have the authority
to submit apps on behalf of my team?
Well,
we've got a solution for that as well.
Again, I select the archive.
I click share.
This time I'm going to
share the whole archive.
Now when I save this out,
it saves out the entire
XC Archive bundle.
I can then send that to my team agent.
They can double click on it and it'll
open and import into their copy of Xcode.
And then, again,
they can select it and go
through the submit workflow
that I showed you earlier.
They don't need to build from source.
They don't need to even have the source.
And more importantly,
they don't need to share their
signing identity or login
credentials with anyone else.
With that,
I'd like to go back to the slides.
So I've showed you how using
Xcode's archive functionality,
you can share built copies of
your app with other people,
whether that's external testers
or other members of your team.
And I've showed you how via the
submit workflow to validate and upload
your application for submission.
And with that,
I'd like to give it back to Marc.
Thank you Clark.
Thanks.
So I hope you enjoyed
the presentation so far.
What have we seen?
We've been to
All the things that Clark showed you and
the workflow was creating a new project,
provisioning devices, we've seen that,
testing, simulating, archiving.
Now you are all certified Xcode
4.2 experts for iOS development.
We would like to share with
you a few tips and tricks.
First one, a very nice feature,
the developer profile.
Let's say you work from home,
from the office, on your desktop system.
Everything is set up properly.
You went through the step
that Jacob described earlier.
And you have a signing identity.
You have your provisioning profile.
You can deploy, build,
run on your devices.
You're extremely happy.
Now, you're about to leave
home and fly to WWDC,
let's say.
And you want to continue
working using your laptop.
So you want to set up your laptop and
be able to code sign your application,
run them on the device the same
way you do on your desktop.
How do you do that?
It's very easy.
You go to the organizer and
you select developer profile.
Xcode will show you everything
relevant for a developer
from the kitchen and others.
That is, signing identities and the
provisioning profiles understood
by your computer right now.
You select at the bottom, export.
And once you do that,
you'll be asked to enter a name for what
you will archive and enter a password.
The password is extremely important
because this is very private information.
Your private key you're signing as
an entity is something very personal.
And if you're signing in
the name of a corporation,
very important.
Once this is done,
you take this file that you
created on your USB key,
network, whatever,
and you put it on your laptop.
You then click Import.
You ask to enter the password.
You select the correct file, of course.
And that's it.
You have synchronized your
desktop on your laptop.
You don't have the dreaded no identity
file for this provisioning profile,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
I'm sure you've never seen that one,
but it might happen.
Trust me, I've seen it.
That's the best way to avoid that.
That's somewhere one of the only way.
And another way would be to
manually do the same thing,
but why do it manually when
Xcode makes things easy for you?
That's the first tip.
Second one,
problems happen when I'm staying polite.
You left home,
you're halfway to San Francisco,
and you remember, yes,
I will have to build my application
because there's something I need to
change for the demo I want to produce,
but I forgot my signing identity at home.
I forgot to do what we just did.
How do we clean up a system
to go back to normal?
I have one piece of bad news.
You will need to reset up your desktop
computer when you'll be back home.
But that's another discussion.
You can use the developer
profile feature.
To clean up a computer that has not
been used for development so far,
You have to go to the developer
portal and select certificates.
You will be presented with the
certificates you are using and
the one for which the private key
is on your desktop system at home.
You revoke it.
If you don't do that,
because you don't have the
private key on your laptop,
you won't be able to achieve anything.
Once this is done, you go back to Xcode.
And you do what Clark just described.
Refresh, you'll be asked for your
identity on the portal,
the developer portal.
We will recreate for you a private key,
assigning identity,
the provisioning profile,
download everything, you're in business.
When back home,
you'll use the developer profile feature
to reset properly your desktop system,
and you will be back in business.
Sometimes you will want to manage
your projects and keep them in
separated parts like the main
target and a static library.
There is one small thing,
a problem that we saw that you
guys encountered in the past,
and we want to bring
your attention to that.
While you're developing,
everything will be fine.
You'll be able to build,
you'll be able to run on devices,
and so on.
But the moment you will
want to create an archive,
you'll run into trouble.
You need to create,
to use a static library to
import it in the build phase.
You're familiar with that.
We encourage you, if you have problems at
the IPA generation time,
to look in the project setting,
and to look at the flag code,
skip install.
What is it?
If you say, skip install, no.
Xcode will install your static library
in the archive you are creating.
Then when you will want to create an IPA,
what will happen?
You know that you can submit to the
store only a self-contained bundle.
And you will have your dot
app for iOS in your archive.
And you will also have your
static library installed.
There's no way you can distribute a
static library to your user on a device.
So we won't be able to create an IPA.
So you need to set this flag to yes.
Skip the install, please.
Especially if you want to create an IPA.
Small thing, but can be useful.
And now you'll be able
to have an archive.
So we talk about creating from templates.
Sometimes you want to import
from existing projects.
And now we're going back to
a new feature in Xcode 4.2,
one of my favorites.
I like it a lot.
I imported an old project of mine,
the one that Jacob created, not of mine,
but it's the same.
And you see in the issue navigator
that Xcode is saying something.
It's saying, eh,
they are setting that you
might consider updating.
If you click on this,
you'll be offered with a few choices.
In this case, one,
there was not much to change,
but there can be much more.
In this case, what Xcode is saying is,
you have coded your iOS
version that you're using.
And as you know,
you have to build using the latest SDK.
So why not say it?
Why not use the setting that says,
use the latest SDK?
That way, when you have a new
version of Xcode installed,
a new version of the iOS SDK,
you don't have to update your project.
That's very convenient.
Xcode is offering to modernize
your setting for you.
It does a little bit more.
It's checking to duplicate
files in some entries.
It is checking for older flags
that are not supported anymore.
It's project cleaning.
Thank you.
Another detail, small thing.
I'm sure most of you attended the
excellent presentation the other day
about how do I master the schemes.
Schemes are an extremely
powerful feature in Xcode 4.
Schemes are created automatically
for you and if they find
release and debug configuration,
we'll initialize the
schemes based on that.
So, when you will archive an application,
it is very likely that the scheme
that will be created originally will
point to the release configuration.
If you set up in the past a distribution,
which happens to a lot of us,
especially with the workflow
that Xcode 3 was encouraging.
If you set up a
distribution configuration,
the scheme won't point to that one.
So I encourage you to look into your
scheme and look at the automatic
setup to check that it's right,
especially for archive.
Because if you're not pointing
to the configuration you think,
you will be either unable to submit
because it won't build properly,
or you will submit something that
is not exactly what you want.
Which would be bad, I think.
And that's it.
That's it for today.
I hope you enjoyed the presentation.
You might have a few questions.
So we will enter for a few Q&A,
if that's okay with you.
So I'll call the team on stage.
Guys?
If you have more questions, of course,
the excellent Michael Jurowicz is
available to answer all of them.
We have a good documentation.
We have forums where
you can ask questions.
I have Apple engineers replying to those.
I know most of them are in the past,
but the videos will be
available online at some point,
I'm sure.